README.md, before:

# KIND Disembedding Task
<img width="400px" alt="Screenshot of example trial." src="./example_images/ex_trial.png">

This is a [PsychoPy](https://psychopy.org/) implementation of a disembedding task created at Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm.

The experiment consists of trials where a cue image is displayed above a context image. The participant is to identify the target, as indicated by the cue, in the context image and click it. For some trials, the participant is to look for the same target in multiple locations in the context image. In other trials, there are different target stimuli hidden in the same context image.

As the participant clicks in the context image, small blue crosses are added which act as markers, to remind participants of where they have already clicked (and what targets they have already identified).

Instructions are presented both as text on the screen, and through recordings of the instructions being read out loud.

## Running the experiment
You must first find out the size of your monitor in centimers (width) and pixels (width/height), by e.g. looking in the user manual for your monitor. Then:

1. Download [PsychoPy](https://psychopy.org/).
2. Open up the file 'disembedding\_task\_noeyetracker\_version.psyexp' with PsychoPy Builder.
3. Go to the 'setup' routine, and click the 'code_monitor_setup'. Where indicated (with comments) in the 'Before Experiment' tab's code, insert your monitor's size (cm+pixels) and distance from participant (cm).
    - This is necessary for enabling proper resizing of experiment stimuli.
4. Click the 'run' button.
5. In the resulting dialog box: Enter a participant ID and an order group number (1-4).

The 'order group number' corresponds to what trial order should be used, as described in the CSV files in the 'order_specifications' directory.

## Experiment flow / trials
The experiment consists of 11 trials:
* 2 'repeat' trials: Here, the participant is to search for a _single_ shape that's been placed, with varying sizes and orientations, in different spots in the context image.
    - Here, participants have 90 seconds to find all targets, ending the trial - if the participant does not find all targets within 90s, the trial is automatically ended.
* 2 'heap' trials: This is similar to the 'repeat' trials. However, instead of using cartoonish context images of natural settings, targets are instead hidden in context images consisting of abstract shapes (e.g. trials, circles, etc.).
* 2 'once' trials: Here, the participant is to search for _different_ shapes, one at a time, that each only occur once in the context image.
    - Though there are 12 different types of shapes/targets, only one target shape is displayed at a time.
    - Participants are given 30 seconds _per target_ - if the participant does not find a target shape within 30s, the experiment automatically proceeds to the next target.
* 5 'popout' trials: Here, naturalistic setting context images are used. Unlike other trials with naturalistic settings, however, the targets in 'popout' trials are not embedded inside of other objects. Instead, targets have been placed so that they should be readily identifiable, with the intent that these trials form a control condition where no disembedding is needed.
    - 4 of the 'popout' trials have a single target (similar to regular 'repeat' trials).
    - 1 of the 'popout' trials has multiple targets, occuring one time each (similar to regular 'once' trials).

All trials include 12 targets (sometimes consisting of the same shape, sometimes being all of different shapes - see description of trial types above).

Trial order is determined by the selected 'order group number' - see the 'order_specifications' directory for details on this. When this task was used at Karolinska Institutet, the different orderings were used to vary the trial order while ensuring that different participant groups would get the different orderings with the same frequencies.

All trial order specifications put all the 'popout' trials at the end of the experiment. All orders also ensure one each of 'repeat'(R)/'heap'(H)/'once'(O) trials occurs before any of the types may be presented. Lastly, all orders ensure that trials of the same type (except 'popout') never occur 'back-to-back'. E.g. 'R-H-O-H-O-R' is a valid order, but orders like 'R-H-O-O-H-R' or 'R-H-R-O-H-O' are avoided.

## Stimuli
Trial stimuli images are found in 'stimuli/trial'. Specifications regarding where targets are located (regions of interested, ROI's) are found in 'stimuli/stimuli_roi_coordinates.csv'.

## Translating the experiment
Both written and recorded instructions are in Swedish. If you wish to translate the experiment: 

1. Add a new directory to 'stimuli/audio\_read\_instructions/' with recordings corresponding to the files in 'stimuli/audio\_read\_instructions/swedish/'.
2. Open up the experiment .psyexp file with PsychoPy Builder. Open up the code snippet 'code\_translation\_' in the first routine ('setup').
3. Scroll down and replace the value assigned to `READ_AUDIO_DIR_PATH` with `stimuli/audio_read_instructions/YOUR_LANGUAGE_DIRECTORY_NAME`.
4. In the same code snippet, replace the instruction text strings with translations. 

## Changing other experiment configurations
Many aspects of the experiment (eg trial durations) can be reconfigured by opening up the experiment .psyexp file with PsychoPy Builder and changing values in the 'code\_setup\_' snippet in the 'setup' routine.

## (not) Running the experiment online
This experiment was only developed for local use, i.e. not with online use in mind. Since it uses much custom Python code, it is unlikely that one could easily convert it to JavaScript for being run online.

## Attribution
Stimuli, instructions (including recordings) and general outline of experiment flow were created by Elisabeth Nilsson Jobs and Janina Neufeld. Instruction recordings were performed by Elisabeth Nilsson Jobs. All implementation details were worked out and applied in PsychoPy by Lowe Wilsson. 

You are currently _not_ allowed to use this experiment in a research project (or for commercial purposes) unless explicit permission is given by Jobs and/or Neufeld.

Commit message:

add placeholder 'context once' images and add related info in README. add LICENSE and related info in README.

README.md, after:

# KIND Disembedding Task
<img width="400px" alt="Screenshot of example trial." src="./example_images/ex_trial.png">

This is a [PsychoPy](https://psychopy.org/) implementation of a disembedding task created at Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm.

The experiment consists of trials where a cue image is displayed above a context image. The participant is to identify the target, as indicated by the cue, in the context image and click it. For some trials, the participant is to look for the same target in multiple locations in the context image. In other trials, there are different target stimuli hidden in the same context image.

As the participant clicks in the context image, small blue crosses are added which act as markers, to remind participants of where they have already clicked (and what targets they have already identified).

Instructions are presented both as text on the screen, and through recordings of the instructions being read out loud.

## Running the experiment
You must first find out the size of your monitor in centimers (width) and pixels (width/height), by e.g. looking in the user manual for your monitor. Then:

1. Download [PsychoPy](https://psychopy.org/).
2. Open up the file 'disembedding\_task\_noeyetracker\_version.psyexp' with PsychoPy Builder.
3. Go to the 'setup' routine, and click the 'code_monitor_setup'. Where indicated (with comments) in the 'Before Experiment' tab's code, insert your monitor's size (cm+pixels) and distance from participant (cm).
    - This is necessary for enabling proper resizing of experiment stimuli.
4. Click the 'run' button.
5. In the resulting dialog box: Enter a participant ID and an order group number (1-4).

The 'order group number' corresponds to what trial order should be used, as described in the CSV files in the 'order_specifications' directory.

## Experiment flow / trials
The experiment consists of 11 trials:
* 2 'repeat' trials: Here, the participant is to search for a _single_ shape that's been placed, with varying sizes and orientations, in different spots in the context image.
    - Here, participants have 90 seconds to find all targets, ending the trial - if the participant does not find all targets within 90s, the trial is automatically ended.
* 2 'heap' trials: This is similar to the 'repeat' trials. However, instead of using cartoonish context images of natural settings, targets are instead hidden in context images consisting of abstract shapes (e.g. trials, circles, etc.).
* 2 'once' trials: Here, the participant is to search for _different_ shapes, one at a time, that each only occur once in the context image.
    - Though there are 12 different types of shapes/targets, only one target shape is displayed at a time.
    - Participants are given 30 seconds _per target_ - if the participant does not find a target shape within 30s, the experiment automatically proceeds to the next target.
* 5 'popout' trials: Here, naturalistic setting context images are used. Unlike other trials with naturalistic settings, however, the targets in 'popout' trials are not embedded inside of other objects. Instead, targets have been placed so that they should be readily identifiable, with the intent that these trials form a control condition where no disembedding is needed.
    - 4 of the 'popout' trials have a single target (similar to regular 'repeat' trials).
    - 1 of the 'popout' trials has multiple targets, occuring one time each (similar to regular 'once' trials).

All trials include 12 targets (sometimes consisting of the same shape, sometimes being all of different shapes - see description of trial types above).

Trial order is determined by the selected 'order group number' - see the 'order_specifications' directory for details on this. When this task was used at Karolinska Institutet, the different orderings were used to vary the trial order while ensuring that different participant groups would get the different orderings with the same frequencies.

All trial order specifications put all the 'popout' trials at the end of the experiment. All orders also ensure one each of 'repeat'(R)/'heap'(H)/'once'(O) trials occurs before any of the types may be presented. Lastly, all orders ensure that trials of the same type (except 'popout') never occur 'back-to-back'. E.g. 'R-H-O-H-O-R' is a valid order, but orders like 'R-H-O-O-H-R' or 'R-H-R-O-H-O' are avoided.

## Stimuli
Trial stimuli images are found in 'stimuli/trial'. Specifications regarding where targets are located (regions of interest, ROI's) are found in 'stimuli/stimuli_roi_coordinates.csv'.

Stimuli images were created by Janina Neufeld and are located in the 'stimuli' directory. For two of the 'trial context' images ('once1_context.jpg' and 'once2_context.jpg'), background images from [depositphotos.com](depositphotos.com) were used. For this reason, these two context images have been replaced with black backgrounds in this shareable version of the experiment. To get the necessary images:
1. Go to depositphotos.com and purchase the two background images that were originally used:
    - https://depositphotos.com/284133674/stock-illustration-wooden-sign-cartoon.html (stock illustration wooden sign cartoon)
    - https://depositphotos.com/326598326/stock-illustration-tent-and-camping-vector-design.html (stock illustration tent and camping vector design)
2. Send an e-mail to janina.neufeld-at-ki.se or elisabeth.nilsson.jobs-at-ki.se to request the context images.

## Translating the experiment
Both written and recorded instructions are in Swedish. If you wish to translate the experiment: 

1. Add a new directory to 'stimuli/audio\_read\_instructions/' with recordings corresponding to the files in 'stimuli/audio\_read\_instructions/swedish/'.
2. Open up the experiment .psyexp file with PsychoPy Builder. Open up the code snippet 'code\_translation\_' in the first routine ('setup').
3. Scroll down and replace the value assigned to `READ_AUDIO_DIR_PATH` with `stimuli/audio_read_instructions/YOUR_LANGUAGE_DIRECTORY_NAME`.
4. In the same code snippet, replace the instruction text strings with translations. 

## Changing other experiment configurations
Many aspects of the experiment (eg trial durations) can be reconfigured by opening up the experiment .psyexp file with PsychoPy Builder and changing values in the 'code\_setup\_' snippet in the 'setup' routine.

## (not) Running the experiment online
This experiment was only developed for local use, i.e. not with online use in mind. Since it uses much custom Python code, it is unlikely that one could easily convert it to JavaScript for being run online.

## Attribution
Stimuli were created by Janina Neufeld (in two cases using depositphotos.com images - see 'Stimuli' section), while discussing them with Elisabeth Nilsson Jobs. Instructions and general outline of experiment flow were created by Nilsson Jobs and Neufeld. Instruction recordings were performed by Elisabeth Nilsson Jobs. All implementation details were worked out and applied in PsychoPy by Lowe Wilsson. 

You are free to use and modify this project for non-commercial purposes (e.g. research is OK) with attribution. If you publish articles or share other work based on this project (e.g. if you share a modified version of it), you are required to include a link to this project's GitHub repository: [https://github.com/AnonZebra/disembedding-task-psychopy](https://github.com/AnonZebra/disembedding-task-psychopy).
